.TH CHEET 1 2024-01-25
.SH NAME
cheet \- search sections by topic in document
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY cheet
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ AREA ]
.IR TOPIC ...
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cheet searches for headings matching \fITOPIC\fR in a pre-defined
set of marked-up documents, optionally restricted to \fIAREA\fR,
and prints the corresponding sections (and subsections) to output.
.PP
\fIAREA\fR can be a part of a filename or a path.
If given, cheet only searches the matching file or files.
\fIAREA\fR is distinguished from \fITOPIC\fR by either looking like a path
(ie. containing \fB/\fR) or the existence of a matching filename.
If it does not look like a path and matches no filename in the search path,
it is treated as a \fITOPIC\fR.
.PP
Currently, cheet only understands Markdown documents, using both ATX-style
headings (\fB#\fR-marks) or setext-style headings (underlines).
Note that the parsing procedure is rather crude and definitely not
standards-compliant. It can easily be fooled, for example by headings
inside code blocks, which will not be ignored but treated as regular headings.
Support for more markup languages is possible, but not implemented.
.PP
The directories to be searched for documents are given by the CHEET_PATH
environment variable. If empty, the default directories are
\fI~/.local/share/cheet\fR and \fI~/.cheet\fR.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.BR \-v , \ \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity. This option can be repeated to increase verbosity
even further.
.TP
.BR \-h , \ \-\-help
Print usage and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 if a matching section was found,
1 if no section was found and 2 if an error occured.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The search path can be set by the CHEET_PATH environment variable.
This is a list of directories separated by colons.
If CHEET_PATH is not defined, the default set of directories will be searched:
.IP
~/.local/share/cheet
.IP
~/.cheet
.PP
Coloured output can be disabled by setting the NO_COLOR variable to any value.
.SH EXAMPLES
Searching for a section on Crystal coding style might look like the following:
.IP
cheet crystal style
.PP
If a file called \fIcrystal.md\fR or similar is found somewhere in your
search path, and it contains a heading containing the word "syntax",
the output might look like this:
.IP
.nf
/home/user/.cheet/crystal.md:
Naming Conventions
------------------
- types: `PascalCase`
- methods: `snake_case`
- variables: `snake_case`
- constants: `SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE`

Documentation
-------------
Start lines with `#`, use indicative mood.

Use markdown. To reference other elements, use backticks:
- types and constants: `` `MyClass` ``
- instance methods: `` `#my_method` ``
- class methods: `` `.my_class_method` ``
.fi
.PP
This example assumes that "Syntax" is a level one heading and contains
the two sub-headings shown in the output.
